In this course we'll ask and hopefully answer the fundamental questions of what is U-V mapping.
And why do we need it.
What is it used for.
So let's begin right off with what is U-V mapping.
Well it's really the process of creating a two dimensional representation of our 3D object.
That's really all it is.
It's almost as if we would take a cereal box and cut it along an edge and open it up and lay it flat
down on a kitchen counter.
That's really what U-V mapping is.
And we do this so that we can apply images and photographs and textures to our object in the same way
that this cereal box has had designs and images applied to it here.
And then once those images are applied the cereal box is assembled into its three dimensional form.
So that's really all we're doing.
We're cutting the three dimensional object apart laying it flat so we can apply two dimensional images
to it.
And then we're reconstructing or wrapping those images back around that three dimensional object.
So blender gives us a lot of tools to go through this process.
One of the great tools I think is over here in the screen layout menu we can choose this U-V editing
screen layout.
And if we do that we get a very nice layout of our object and the U-V editor you come down here to this
menu.
You can see that the U.V. image editor is right here and that's what we're taking a look at here.
Now what I like to do as well to add to this particular screen layout is to grab this tab here and drag
it down a bit and create a node editor window.
So I'm going to come over here to this menu and click on Node Ed. And that gives me a view of the node
Ed..
The U-V image editor and the 3D view all in one screen layout.
Now I also should point out that I'm using the cycle's render engine here.
If you're just opening Blendr up you may see that it's set to the Blendr render engine and that's an
older render engine from the original versions of Blendr the cycle's render engine I think is a more
modern render engine.
And I think it's more realistic.
So I'm going to go ahead and use this here.
The reason why I bring that up is because the nodes in the node editor may look a little different if
you're using the blender render engine.
So let's first off just begin by trying to U-V unwrap this cube just like that cereal box.
Let's see if we can open it up and lay it flat here in our U-V image Ed..
There are a couple of ways to do that.
I'm going to tap into edit mode and here in the U-V editing screen layout you can see that we can kind
of see through our object in edit mode and that's because we have this turned off right down here this
limit selection to visible.
If I turn that on you can see we can't see through it.
And this is the way I like to work if you would like to keep this so that you can see through it.
That's fine too.
So I get to go and turn that on.
So here in edit mode the first thing I'm going to do is press the key on the keyboard.
And that brings up this the mapping menu.
We have several selections here we have unwrap smart U-V project like map pack.
There's quite a few others down here but I think the main ones we're going to be using is unwrap and
smart U-V project.
Let's go ahead and try smart U.V. project click on that and then click OK.
And this is what happens.
So what blender has done for us is it's taken each of the faces of this object and laid them out flat
in our U-V image editor.
I'm going to come over here to this little checkbox and turn on this stretch colourations So I'll turn
that on.
And that we can see these a little better.
So what would this look like now if we were to apply images to this object.
Well Blendr has a nice U-V test pattern that we can use to lay onto our object and kind of get a sense
of how the images will be applied to our object.
So I come down here and I'll click new.
And here we can choose what kind of image we want to apply to our U.V. image editor.
I'm going to change the name here.
I'll call it U-V test and currently 10:24 by 10:24 is just fine for the resolution but right down here
under generated type I want to change this from blank to U-V grid and if I click that and then click
OK you can see here that we've created a U-V grid underneath our U-V islands.
If I come over here and turn off the stretch coloration here you can see it underneath those U-V islands.
All right I'll turn that back on.
Now what I'd like to do is apply that checker pattern to my object here.
So to do that I'm going to have to apply that texture to the material of the object and you can see
up here in the node Ed. that it does have a material.
This is just the default cube that is present when you open up a scene in blender.
I'm going to click used node's right here and now we can see the diffuse and material output nodes for
this particular material.
Now if you're new to materials and the node Ed. Please check out Blendr 201 materials and lighting where
we go into more detail about how to create and adjust material settings in Blender.
But now that I have the nodes here I want to apply that image texture here that U-V test pattern so
I'll press shift day and under texture I'll choose image texture.
Now I can pull down this little menu right here and choose my U-V test pattern I'll hook it up to the
diffuse node.
And now if I come over here and change my viewport shading from solid to texture we can see it here
in the viewport.
All right you say but what good does that do us.
Well if we come over here we can see we have different ways to select our UVA's we can select them by
U-V island by U-V face edge or vertex with vertex selected.
I'll go ahead and just select one of these and I'll hit the G key and move it around and you can see
as I do the stretch color changes from blue to green and the more I pull it the more stretched it gets.
But if we tumble around on our cube here we can see that here is that face.
I'll hit the G key again and move that vertex around.
So it's pretty clear with this that the position and the layout of our U-V islands is very important
for how our textures are going to lay down on our object.
If we just wanted this checker pattern on our object this is definitely not what we would want.
So I will undo this if we choose say an edge or go to edge display and select an edge.
I can hit the G key and move that around and you can see how stretched that face will get as well.
So the purpose of U-V unwrapping is to allow us to put images on our 3D object.
However what we can see here is that the lay out of our U-V map is very important to how the textures
are applied to our objects.
So in the next video we'll talk about other ways of U-V unwrapping our objects.